“So the boy . . . the boy must die?” asked Snape quite calmly.
“And Voldemort himself must do it, Severus. That is essential.”
Another long silence. Then Snape said, “I thought . . . all those
years . . . that we were protecting him for her. For Lily.”
“We have protected him because it has been essential to teach
him, to raise him, to let him try his strength,” said Dumbledore,
his eyes still tight shut. “Meanwhile, the connection between them
grows ever stronger, a parasitic growth. Sometimes I have thought
he suspects it himself. If I know him, he will have arranged matters
so that when he does set out to meet his death, it will truly mean
the end of Voldemort.”
Dumbledore opened his eyes. Snape looked horrified.
“You have kept him alive so that he can die at the right moment?”
“Don’t be shocked, Severus. How many men and women have
you watched die?”
“Lately, only those whom I could not save,” said Snape. He
stood up. “You have used me.”
“Meaning?”
“I have spied for you and lied for you, put myself in mortal danger for you. Everything was supposed to be to keep Lily Potter’s
son safe. Now you tell me you have been raising him like a pig for
slaughter— ”
“But this is touching, Severus,” said Dumbledore seriously.
“Have you grown to care for the boy, after all?”
“For him?” shouted Snape. “Expecto Patronum!”
From the tip of his wand burst the silver doe. She landed on
the office floor, bounded once across the office, and soared out of
the window. Dumbledore watched her fly away, and as her silvery
687
Chapter 33
glow faded he turned back to Snape, and his eyes were full of tears.
“After all this time?”
“Always,” said Snape.
And the scene shifted. Now, Harry saw Snape talking to the
portrait of Dumbledore behind his desk.
“You will have to give Voldemort the correct date of Harry’s
departure from his aunt and uncle’s,” said Dumbledore. “Not to
do so will raise suspicion, when Voldemort believes you so well
informed. However, you must plant the idea of decoys; that, I
think, ought to ensure Harry’s safety. Try Confunding Mundungus
Fletcher. And Severus, if you are forced to take part in the chase,
be sure to act your part convincingly . . . I am counting upon you
to remain in Lord Voldemort’s good books as long as possible, or
Hogwarts will be left to the mercy of the Carrows . . . ”